# Chefs in the Kitchen#
#### What the Heck Have I Gotten Myself Into? ####
#### September 23, 2014

Soooo... **terrified**.  

I guess that's kind of where I'm at right now. [Shereef's Fireside Chat](https://vimeo.com/85001014), funny enough, quelled at least a few of those terrors (for now), and (haha thanks man!) brought up a few more.

You know, the funny thing is, these soft-skill concepts should  be the ones I have the best tools to deal with.  I mean, I know myself and how I'm feeling better than anyone, and I'm a pretty dang empathetic guy, and I put other people's feelings way ahead of my own like, all the time.  Still, I think I find these topics the hardest to actually *process* and come to any conclusions on. I've *never* been exposed to building strategies around soft skills - I'm starting to realize that the way I've always dealt with challenge was to fight and push through until physically incapable, at which point I'd withdraw for days. Also, measuring changes in yourself, over time, is difficult.  If nothing else, I'll try to be as open as I can about the experience I'm about to embark on with DevBootcamp, and maybe 8, 10, or 15 weeks out I'll look back at what I wrote and just laugh (Hello Future Me!).

So, one thing I *will* say thus far with my experience in Phase 0 at DBC is that this place really wants to help us focus on the personal tools for learning, for dealing with stress, and for working with others. After some consideration, I have to say I appreciate it. I guess I should preface *why* (as I often do) with a little tale. 

Once upon a Time - I had a job into which I invested an incredible amount of time, energy, and willpower in the hopes of maybe becoming a "company man" (in that most totally '50s era traditional sense that our parents grew up with). At the beginning, things went well.  I was blessed with a team and a manager that really focused on working *as* a team.  There was always this kind of "white noise" of constant conversation among the guys on my team where everyone verbally updated each other with issues, things going on, random questions, random thoughts, random answers and solutions, stupid jokes. It was cool. In fact, it was so cool that the non-IT people around us would comment how smoothly and how "not like IT people" we all acted.  I can only assume that meant we weren't all introverted, quiet, bookish, whatever.  What it *did* mean is that we'd get all sorts of input from within the team on things happening in the company - a surprising amount which was not even *technical*.  These would include business decisions, sales accomplishments, branding choices and marketing strategies... heck, even warehouse changes were things the IT team would talk about. Ahh... those were the Halcyon days, when we had an idea of what was going on and could actually change our own processes to prepare for things coming down the pipe, without our manager even needing to point them out.

For some reason one day the decision was made that our "learning environment" was no longer suitable, that we should provide a service to resolve issues for the business *as the business brought them to us*, and the team was pulled from any involvement how to carry out a business decision.  We changed from an actively involved team to one that *only* responded to issues defined by the business. I suppose anyone that's ever worked on a team with special knowledge would understand how successful this strategy turned out. Not only did it alienate a team of people who'd been there for years, and knew the ins and outs of the company both technically and non-technically, but it also forced us to deliver packaged technical goods as defined by non-technical people, without any kind of two-way conversation about how to achieve those solutions.  I stayed there for probably a few more years than I should have, out of a feeling that I owed the company something for the "good" years, or maybe hoping that the whole "company man" feeling would return. Fortunately or unfortunately, it did not.

I suppose my point in telling this story is, for years I've been getting forced into this crazy fixed mindset: "I can't figure this thing out, that must mean I'm stupid?" "Why is the (new) boss yelling at me in front of my peers for not being able to figure something out that is *way* out of what they hired me to do?" "Why does the boss call me a 'mad scientist' when I'm only trying to sit down and figure out a problem he gave me to solve?" I took things personally, and I took things harshly. Now, I'm reading all these things about the value of pairing, and the "growth vs fixed" mindset, and the DBC process of learning, and team building, and sharing, and I'm terrified, because I want to believe those things I experienced once upon a time were actually a *good thing*, and something that people actually value. I want it to be something people actually value *after* I leave DBC and go to work again. 

The first topic that Shereef brought to the table - the Restaurant vs. Kitchen idea - rings so true in this regard. To me, it's good to hear that the Boots have agency, that we are part of a grand experiment, that we own as much of the experience as everyone else.  Personally I am as excited about learning from masters in software development as I am to get into that kind of cross-education with my peers.  I honestly believe it's the way to go, because I've been there before. I also totally sound like I drank the Kool-Aid, but you know, that's just another way of saying "Don't trust what you already know can work", and I'm in to win it, so to hell with that kind of thinking.

This being said, there are a ton of new concepts that over this past week I've been reading and following with some level of suspicion - mainly because I've just not been exposed to them in any sort of scholastic or professional way, in the past. I'm not sure what to make of time-boxing - as I said before I've always just pushed through or collapsed/withdrew. I'm hoping that someone can help me build strategies around time management *as much as* the need to push through. I think the "little habits" idea may help. At least, it makes sense to me. I gotta think that a group so dead-set on building the teamwork skills that I *have* seen work, must know something about soft strategies that I don't, and I'm just hoping for the very best.


